What we're going to be doing in this demo includes
creating a new AWS Glue crawler,
run the crawler on the process data in the S3 processed zone,
review the table results in AWS Glue database sakiladb in the Glue Data Catalog,
confirm that the two tables were joined,
confirmed the sakiladb data catalog entry has a new Parquet-formatted table,
I'll introduce you to the Amazon Athena query editor interface,
and we'll run some queries on the Parquet-formatted
data in the Glue Data Catalog.
Let's start this demo now.
Navigate to the Crawlers link in the left AWS Glue Console's menu,
and then click on Add crawler.
Give your crawler a name,
I named mine S3-film-cat-crawler2 because I already had S3-film-cat-crawler,
but call yours whatever you'd like.
In the specified Crawler source type, choose data stores, and then choose Next.
From the drop-down list, choose S3,
and set the radio button to crawl data in a specified path in my account,
and then click on the little folder icon.
This brings up all your S3 buckets that you have in your account.
Navigate to the bucket name that you specified for the AWS Glue job
to put the results of the ETL transformations in.
For me, it's uniquebucketnamedestination, and select it, and then click Next.
This is where it's asking if you want to add another data store because
one crawler can crawl many data stores simultaneously,
but we're just going to say no because the chosen data
store is one bucket in Amazon S3, and choose Next.
In the Choose an IAM role, click the option to Choose an existing IAM role,
and click on the drop-down, and you will see GlueStack-AWSGlueRole as an option.
So click that, and then click Next.
This is where you can create a schedule for the crawler,
and we'll get into that when we do automation,
but remember that as you create a new crawler,
you can do that right off the bat, but I'm going to leave it at Run on demand,
and click Next.
In the next page entitled Configure the crawler's
output for the Database option, We want to choose sakiladb,
and for a Prefix, we want that to be S3_.
Review the final page, and then click Finish.
So you can see the crawler is now running,
and currently it shows a Status of Starting.
Keep hitting the Refresh button, and now it has a status of Stopping.
Now the Status is Ready.
In the sakiladb tables, scroll down to the bottom,
and we have a new entry that has the Classification of Parquet.
So the Glue job transformation that took the MySQL data format and
turned it into Parquet format was successful.
Let's click on the bucket name and scroll down.
The join transformation was successful as well.
Here we have the two timestamp columns,
one from the film table and one from the film_category table,
and we have the category_id column,
which is what we wanted to get by doing the join of the
film table and the film_category table.
So both transformations were successful.
Let's view the Properties.
Here are all the columns, here's the location,
the input format, the output format, we didn't use any kind of compression,
and it chose a default SerDes for Parquet format.
It gives you more information about the parameters,
including the classification of Parquet,
and in contrast to the last time we looked at the properties of a
table that came from the Amazon Aurora database,
the type of data is not table, it's file.
And let's close this.
Let's now go up to Services and start typing Athena,
and when it shows up, click on it, and you might have to click Refresh,
and make sure that the Database that's selected is the sakila database,
and the Table is the uniquebucketnamedestination or whatever you chose to
be the name of your target destination for the Glue job.
We expand this, you have all of the columns in the table,
and here's category_id and the two last updates.
So let's run a query.
What we're doing is selecting everything from the database and the table,
and we're limiting it to 10 rows just for the example.
So you highlight it and run the query.
And you can see it's running, and here we have data.
ET, phone home because this is a whole new world.
And what you can do, you can do a Create table as,
you can save the query, you can format the query,
and any queries that you save will be under this tab.
There's also the History tab,
and you can go to the AWS Glue Data Catalog by simply clicking on that link,
and here we are.
Going back to the Athena Console, if we click on Create table,
you have the option to create a table from S3 bucket data,
from a Glue crawler,
and also using SQL templates of CREATE TABLE or CREATE TABLE AS SELECT.
Notice if you choose that you want to create a table from a Glue crawler,
you're given this popup that reads that you will go to the
AWS Glue Console to set up a crawler, how easy is that,
right?
It states the crawler connects to your data store and automatically
determines its structure to create the metadata for your table.
So remember this option when you're working with Amazon Athena.
I uploaded a CSV file to an S3 bucket that lists the NBA
players and if they have tattoos or not.
This is the perfect kind of NBA trivia that
Globomantics customers like to read about.
Quite frankly,
I'd like to know what the tattoos are of versus a yes or no answer,
but that's what we have to work with.
So from the Athena Query Editor Console,
I'm going to create a table from S3 bucket data.
So when you choose Create table from S3 bucket data,
in the Add table dialog,
choose the sakila database because everything in the sakiladb data
catalog database has to do with NBA players.
And I gave the table a name of nba_tattoos.
So if you read the text underneath the location of input dataset,
AWS gives you examples of the format to use if you're going to load
certain partitions or everything under a certain bucket.
Let me show you the S3 bucket that I uploaded without showing you.
If you filter by date, if I filter by Date created,
I have nba-tattoos, and if I click on it,
it has the CSV file named nbatattoos.csv,
you have that in your demo folder as an asset.
So the way that this would be represented when we are adding a
table to the database is s3://nba-tattoos/.
And all Athena tables have to be external, and then click Next.
It asks you about the Data Format, the data format is CSV, and click on Next.
So this CSV file only has two columns, the first column is playername,
and it's of type string.
The second column has the name tattoos, and it's also a string.
Click Next.
You could configure partitions here, but I'm just going to say Create the table.
And what this does is it creates a new external table.
If we run the query, it's successful, so let's drop this down,
we have two columns.
So now that the create external table ran,
let's run a select statement on the nba-tattoos table.
So type in the select query that you see here on the screen where
you're selecting everything from the schema.table,
and limit it to 600 because the listings are ordered with
all the no's at the top of the table,
and all the yes's at the bottom of the table.
So let's run this query, select it, and choose Run.
Bring this up so we can see the results,
and we go through all of the no tattoos at the top,
but if we scroll down far enough, we start seeing yes.
And examples of those NBA players that do have tattoos includes Kobe Bryant,
LeBron James, Shaquille O'Neal.
So I'll let you explore this on your own time,
and who knows, you might become one of the millions of Globomantics fans.
And you can say I fixed their technical problems
with AWS Glue and Amazon Athena.
In the next section,
I'll quickly review the join ETL transformation and the data type transformation, and a little bit of detail on Amazon Athena.